The final skill that we're going to learn before we build our currency converter app at the end of the
section it has had images to our app so images are obviously a cool way of making your app more attractive
and interesting to the user and they're pretty easy to add in Android studio.
So first off we're going to need some images to add so I'm going to jump over to Google images and just
search for some images of.
Why not.
I think I'll go for them Clipper cats.
And those first two looked great.
So of course if you're working with an app you're going to actually use in publication then you need
to be very careful of the copyright status of the images that you are using.
But if you're just playing with an app for practice then downloading an image from Google Images just
to test things is perfectly fine.
So I control click or right click on Windows and save image as and I'm going to save it on the desktop
or just call it Cat.
Now notice this image is actually pretty big.
It's a pretty big image.
So I might have to resize it before I put it in my app.
So this one is 4000 by 5000 which is very big.
This one's 500 by 500 or so which is actually perfectly fine.
So I'll save that one.
We'll see why we're having two images in a moment.
So cool that Kattie
and then to do the resizing on Mac.
It's very simple.
I'm just going to double click on the image I want cats.
There we go.
And then tools are just size.
And then I'll change that to 400 pixels in width will make it much smaller.
And less likely to cause any speed problems.
Within the app and then I'll just save it and move on.
If you're on Windows you'll need to either just download a smaller image or use some kind of image conversion
program to change the image size and then to import the images just find them and then on Windows you
can just drag them into the drawable folder.
They're within the resources folder but on a Mac for some reason you need to copy them to the clipboard
so command C and then go over to the folder and then command V to paste them in and then just click
OK and then they will be imported into our project.
Excellent.
So how do we actually make them appear.
Well back over to activity main
and here I'll actually get rid of the three items that we've got so far.
And I'll bring in an image view
and I'm going to make it aligned to the top left and then we'll make it fill parent both in terms of
width and height.
There we go.
And then we scroll all the way down to SIRC which is short for source and then we're going to select
one of our images.
Click on the button with the three dots and then go over to the drawable section on the left and there
they were
and there's two options.
OK for the first cat
and that he or she is.
And then I'd like to see that in action.
But before I do I will need to remove the carried in main activity because that now refers to user interface
elements that are no longer there.
So we try to run it as it was then we get an error.
So let's just check make sure our cat appears as we'd like and there we go.
So your cat is displayed beautifully there.
So now you might be wondering why we have this second cat image.
That's because I'm going to get you another challenge and this challenge will require you to do a little
bit of googling to work out the solution to the challenge.
Googling is maybe 80 percent of the job of the average developer.
A very important skill to learn and you're going to get your first taste of it right now.
So what we're going to do is add a button to our app and what we want to do is when we press that button
the image should change from the first cat image to the second cat image.
Simple as that.
So obviously setting up the button to run some code should be second nature now but updating an image
with code is something you haven't done before so you'll need to do a quick bit of googling to work
out how to do that.
That's the time to pause the video and give it a shot.
Best of luck.
All right.
Here we go then.
I hope you manage to do that.
I'm going to start by adding the button then.
So I'm just going to drag it over on top of the image view.
And
I'll change it to new cat
and then I'll just set the on click
again.
I'll call it a new cat
and then will write the code for the new cat method.
So again public void because it's not returning anything.
You can't and this is coming from a view.
So we'll have that in there.
Now one quick tip before we get into changing the cat's image is that when you're setting up something
like this especially if you're going to add some code that your you haven't used before that you're
not that confident about it just set up a quick test
to make sure that everything is connected up as you'd want it to be
and then run your app with that code before you do anything too complicated regarding code that you're
not familiar with.
So while that's running I'm just going to jump over back to Chrome and do a google search.
So what is it that I want to do.
I want to update an image with current.
So let's try that update image with code and then we need to specify the platform that we're working
on.
Usually Android is enough.
Sometimes I put Java in there as well just to be clear.
But usually Android is enough.
So there we go how to update or change images of image view dynamically in Android.
That looks pretty perfect.
You'll notice that in fact all of the top four results there are on stack overflow.
If you haven't used stack overlay before you'll definitely come across it.
It's a fantastic site where anyone can ask and answer primarily programming questions but it's actually
extended to all sorts of other topics now as well.
So if you have a question that you really can't find the answer to.
You can actually just post it on stack overflow but make sure you've Googled it very carefully first.
OK so this looks like the answer to our question looks like we're creating an image view just like we
created an edit text in the previous video using fine view by id and then this is the key there.
Set image resource.
And then it looks like we find the results from the durable folder.
Perfect.
So I would always look through code fairly carefully to make sure that you understand what it's doing
before you use it.
Don't just use code blindly
but let's have a quick look.
So does our new cap pattern work.
I've got an info search in there.
There we go.
OK.
So everything is connected OK.
The vantage of doing that is if your image code didn't work for any reason then it's hard to know whether
you just made a mistake in the set up or whether your code is wrong.
So now at least we know that if there's a problem it will be a problem with the code.
So I've pasted that in there.
Now obviously we need to update a few things so we got our image we need to find a view by ID.
So we'll need to give our image an ID.
It is a double click on the image.
I'll call it cat image view.
And we'll update all the usages of that within the app.
And then over in main activity we should be able to find it in our dog ID dog cat image view.
There it is.
And then we just want to take our image and set an image resource.
So we put it in drawable so we should be able to find our drawable dog cat to select it correctly.
There it is.
So you see that was predicted.
We don't need the extension.
It only stores the actual file name.
There we go.
So I hope you manage to do that bit of googling it when you get to the stage where you can comfortably
Google something that you don't know how to do.
It's really useful because you can essentially build any IP like just by working out the missing bits
of your knowledge and filling them in by looking on stack overflow or just Google.
So let's have a look.
We should now find that when we tap the button it updates the image to the second cat and there we go
one quick final thing before we move on to our challenge is that with images it's worth knowing that
there are different ways to display them within the image view.
And you'll find that here in properties near the bottom where it says scale type.
And so for example fits X Y will stretch it right to the edge of the container.
Fit start will keep it in proportion and align it to the top of the container for its sends it will
keep it in proportion and align it in the center of the container.
That's probably the one you're most commonly going to need fit and will obviously keep it at the end.
Center has it full resolution and then send it send center Krup does something pretty similar and then
center inside is just keeping it centered within the image itself.
So probably fit center or center inside is going to be the one that you want.
For most of your images.
Wonderful.
So now we've covered images we know everything that we need for our currency converter app.
So let's go and build that in the next video.